README.md, before:

## For an improved version of this submission see [mpw7](https://github.com/chrische-xx/mpw7)


# 10 bit SAR-ADC + Analog Circuits

This submission features:

- The first open source 10 bit SAR-ADC
- Bandgap reference.
- Testbuffer with multiplexer input.
- Clock generator
- 2 linear regulators, 1.2V and 1.5V.
- Bias current/voltage generator.


Included are:

- Hierachical GDS of the whole layout with all individual blocks.
- Schematics for all parts of the layout.
- Testbenches for all the individual blocks.
- Simulation corners setups for process corner simulations.
- FEM simulation setup for DAC capacitor.
- Verilog Code for SAR logic

# Schematics

Simply source cadrc in the xschem folder and execute 
[xschem](https://xschem.sourceforge.io/stefan/index.html) afterwards to get an full overview.

![Top Schematic](docs/pictures/xschem_top.png "Top Schematic")


# Layout

The layout was created using [magic](http://opencircuitdesign.com/magic) 
with the [open_pdk](https://github.com/RTimothyEdwards/open_pdks) sky130 setup as a pcell generator
and [klayout](https://www.klayout.de/) for the layout and assembly of the gds.

![Top-level layout](docs/pictures/top.png "Top-level layout")

 \
 \
 \ 
 
# ADC

The ADC is a differential 10 bit SAR, with a capacitative DAC.


### Specifications

| Parameter    | Min       | Typ           |  Max      | Unit |
|:-------------|:---------:|:-------------:|:---------:|:----:|
| $A_{VDD}$    |           |               | 1.8       | V    |
| $D_{VDD}$    |           |               | 1.8       | V    |
| $V_{in,p}$   | $A_{VSS}$ |               | $A_{VDD}$*| V    |
| $V_{in,n}$   | $A_{VSS}$ |               | $A_{VDD}$*| V    |
| $V_{CM}$     |           | $A_{VDD}$/2   |           | V    |
| Resolution   |           | 10            |           | bits |
| $f_{clk}$    |           |               | 10        | MHz  |
| $T_{A}$      | -20       |               | 85        | °C   |
| Area         |           | 0.08745       |           | mm²  |
| $C_{in}$     |           | 3             |           | pF   |

\*  3.3V if ADC is not sampling the input signal.


### Architecture

The Architecture of SAR is shown below. It is a differential
architecture with a top-plate sampled CDAC.

![SAR-Architecture](docs/pictures/sar_arch.png "SAR-Architecture")


## Comparator

The comparator is pretty standard single stage topology. It 
features a trim array to calibrate its input offset.

![Comparator Schematic](docs/pictures/comparator.png "Comparator architecture")


## Logic

The entire control logic is synthesized using the [openlane](https://github.com/The-OpenROAD-Project/OpenLane) flow.
This allows to easily integrate the trim logic for the 
comparator into the overall control logic block.

For faster simulation the ngspice mixed-mode xspice feature was used.
[Yosys](https://github.com/YosysHQ/yosys) can be used to synthesize a xspice 
compatible netlist that only uses code-model components (NAND, NOT, DFF etc.) 
which speeds up simulation substantially.

## DAC

The DAC is a capacitative DAC made from a total of 1024 unit caps
per side.

The unit size of the DAC elements is ~3fF based on FEM simulation carried out
with [Elmer FEM](https://github.com/ElmerCSC/elmerfem).
You can find the full simulation setup in the elmer subfolder of this repo.

The process is:

- [klayout](https://www.klayout.de/) with [gds3xtrude](https://codeberg.org/tok/gds3xtrude) to get a stl mesh of the layout
- [freecad](https://www.freecadweb.org/) to convert mesh to step and encapsulate layout in boundary.
- [gmsh](https://gmsh.info/) to create a .msh 3D mesh from the step file.
- ElmerMesh to convert the .msh file to Elmer compatible mesh.
- ElmerGUI to define boundary conditions for the problem.
- ElmerSolver to solve for the electric field, capacitance etc.
- [Paraview](https://www.paraview.org/) to verify the solution.

![Elmer FEM](docs/pictures/mom_fem.png "DAC Section for Elmer FEM simulation")


## Sampling Switch

The DAC is top-plate sampled using a bootstrapped switch.

![Sampling Switch](docs/pictures/bssw.png "Sampling Switch")


## Layout

The complete SAR-ADC layout can be seen below. It occupies an area of approximately
0.08745 mm² (530 μm x 165 μm).

![SAR layout](docs/pictures/sar_layout.png "SAR layout")


## Simulation

The result of a input voltage sweep across the full input range (-1.8V to 1.8V) can be seen below.

![SAR Simulation](docs/pictures/sar_simulation.png "SAR Simulation")

# Main

The main section contains various blocks that support the independent operation 
of the ADC.

![Architecture](docs/pictures/arch.png "Overall design architecture")


## Layout

The complete Main layout can be seen below. It occupies an area of approximately
0.1054 mm² ( 285 μm x 370 μm).

![Main Layout](docs/pictures/main_layout.png "Layout of the Main block")


# Simulation

All parts have been simulated, using [ngspice](http://ngspice.sourceforge.net/), for PVT where relevant.

- TT, SS, SF, FF, FS + Cmax, Cmin + Rmax, Rmin
- Voltage +-10%
- Temperature range -20° to 85°

To carry out PVT simulations, I used my custom [ngsim](https://github.com/chrische-xx/ngsim) 
python package that allows to manipulate spice netlists between runs. 


## Block Simulation

A lot of different simulations were carried out on the individual blocks. 
The testbenches can be found in the xschem/tb folder under the respective
block name.

## Top-Level Simulation

A complete extracted top-level simulation was carried out using a modified
PDK and [Xyce](https://github.com/Xyce/Xyce).

An example from system startup to completion of the first SAR conversion cycle
with zero differential input voltage can be seen below.

![Top-Level Simulation](docs/pictures/top_sim.png "Top-Level Simulation")

It shows the output voltage of the positive and negative DAC side.
This simulation utilizes all internal blocks, such a bandgap, ldo and oscillator
to operate the ADC.


# Measurements

For the Full Report see: [Report.pdf](measurements/report/report.pdf).

## Main

### Basis Current Source (BCS)

### Bandgap Reference Voltage (BGR)

![Bandgap trim](measurements/report/pic/bgr_trim.png "Trim of the BGR")

### Bias Generator (BIAG)

![vb voltages](measurements/report/pic/vb.png "vb voltages")

### Testbuffer (TB)

![Testbuffer input cycle](measurements/report/pic/tb_cycle.png "Testbuffer input cycle")

![Testbuffer Rise and Fall](measurements/report/pic/tb_rise_fall.png "Testbuffer Rise and Fall")

![Testbuffer noise](measurements/report/pic/tb_noise.png "Testbuffer noise")

### Low Dropout Regulator (LDO)

![LDO Rise and Fall](measurements/report/pic/ldo_rise_fall.png "LDO Rise and Fall")

### Current Starved Oscillator (OSC)


## SAR


# Open Access Ressources

Very detailed and good ressource on SAR-ADC design.
[A Low Power 10-bit SAR ADC in a 45nm process - V.A. Dyachenko](https://repository.tudelft.nl/islandora/object/uuid:407e656f-30b6-4694-a7b3-19631892ceea/datastream/OBJ/download)

Various topics from bandgap reference to sampling switch circuits.
[A circuit for all Seasons - B. Razavi](https://www.seas.ucla.edu/brweb/journal.html)

Commit message:

added work in progess measurement report

README.md, after:

## For an improved version of this submission see [mpw7](https://github.com/chrische-xx/mpw7)


# 10 bit SAR-ADC + Analog Circuits

This submission features:

- The first open source 10 bit SAR-ADC
- Bandgap reference.
- Testbuffer with multiplexer input.
- Clock generator
- 2 linear regulators, 1.2V and 1.5V.
- Bias current/voltage generator.


Included are:

- Hierachical GDS of the whole layout with all individual blocks.
- Schematics for all parts of the layout.
- Testbenches for all the individual blocks.
- Simulation corners setups for process corner simulations.
- FEM simulation setup for DAC capacitor.
- Verilog Code for SAR logic

# Schematics

Simply source cadrc in the xschem folder and execute 
[xschem](https://xschem.sourceforge.io/stefan/index.html) afterwards to get an full overview.

![Top Schematic](docs/pictures/xschem_top.png "Top Schematic")


# Layout

The layout was created using [magic](http://opencircuitdesign.com/magic) 
with the [open_pdk](https://github.com/RTimothyEdwards/open_pdks) sky130 setup as a pcell generator
and [klayout](https://www.klayout.de/) for the layout and assembly of the gds.

![Top-level layout](docs/pictures/top.png "Top-level layout")

 \
 \
 \ 
 
# ADC

The ADC is a differential 10 bit SAR, with a capacitative DAC.


### Specifications

| Parameter    | Min       | Typ           |  Max      | Unit |
|:-------------|:---------:|:-------------:|:---------:|:----:|
| $A_{VDD}$    |           |               | 1.8       | V    |
| $D_{VDD}$    |           |               | 1.8       | V    |
| $V_{in,p}$   | $A_{VSS}$ |               | $A_{VDD}$*| V    |
| $V_{in,n}$   | $A_{VSS}$ |               | $A_{VDD}$*| V    |
| $V_{CM}$     |           | $A_{VDD}$/2   |           | V    |
| Resolution   |           | 10            |           | bits |
| $f_{clk}$    |           |               | 10        | MHz  |
| $T_{A}$      | -20       |               | 85        | °C   |
| Area         |           | 0.08745       |           | mm²  |
| $C_{in}$     |           | 3             |           | pF   |

\*  3.3V if ADC is not sampling the input signal.


### Architecture

The Architecture of SAR is shown below. It is a differential
architecture with a top-plate sampled CDAC.

![SAR-Architecture](docs/pictures/sar_arch.png "SAR-Architecture")


## Comparator

The comparator is pretty standard single stage topology. It 
features a trim array to calibrate its input offset.

![Comparator Schematic](docs/pictures/comparator.png "Comparator architecture")


## Logic

The entire control logic is synthesized using the [openlane](https://github.com/The-OpenROAD-Project/OpenLane) flow.
This allows to easily integrate the trim logic for the 
comparator into the overall control logic block.

For faster simulation the ngspice mixed-mode xspice feature was used.
[Yosys](https://github.com/YosysHQ/yosys) can be used to synthesize a xspice 
compatible netlist that only uses code-model components (NAND, NOT, DFF etc.) 
which speeds up simulation substantially.

## DAC

The DAC is a capacitative DAC made from a total of 1024 unit caps
per side.

The unit size of the DAC elements is ~3fF based on FEM simulation carried out
with [Elmer FEM](https://github.com/ElmerCSC/elmerfem).
You can find the full simulation setup in the elmer subfolder of this repo.

The process is:

- [klayout](https://www.klayout.de/) with [gds3xtrude](https://codeberg.org/tok/gds3xtrude) to get a stl mesh of the layout
- [freecad](https://www.freecadweb.org/) to convert mesh to step and encapsulate layout in boundary.
- [gmsh](https://gmsh.info/) to create a .msh 3D mesh from the step file.
- ElmerMesh to convert the .msh file to Elmer compatible mesh.
- ElmerGUI to define boundary conditions for the problem.
- ElmerSolver to solve for the electric field, capacitance etc.
- [Paraview](https://www.paraview.org/) to verify the solution.

![Elmer FEM](docs/pictures/mom_fem.png "DAC Section for Elmer FEM simulation")


## Sampling Switch

The DAC is top-plate sampled using a bootstrapped switch.

![Sampling Switch](docs/pictures/bssw.png "Sampling Switch")


## Layout

The complete SAR-ADC layout can be seen below. It occupies an area of approximately
0.08745 mm² (530 μm x 165 μm).

![SAR layout](docs/pictures/sar_layout.png "SAR layout")


## Simulation

The result of a input voltage sweep across the full input range (-1.8V to 1.8V) can be seen below.

![SAR Simulation](docs/pictures/sar_simulation.png "SAR Simulation")

# Main

The main section contains various blocks that support the independent operation 
of the ADC.

![Architecture](docs/pictures/arch.png "Overall design architecture")


## Layout

The complete Main layout can be seen below. It occupies an area of approximately
0.1054 mm² ( 285 μm x 370 μm).

![Main Layout](docs/pictures/main_layout.png "Layout of the Main block")


# Simulation

All parts have been simulated, using [ngspice](http://ngspice.sourceforge.net/), for PVT where relevant.

- TT, SS, SF, FF, FS + Cmax, Cmin + Rmax, Rmin
- Voltage +-10%
- Temperature range -20° to 85°

To carry out PVT simulations, I used my custom [ngsim](https://github.com/chrische-xx/ngsim) 
python package that allows to manipulate spice netlists between runs. 


## Block Simulation

A lot of different simulations were carried out on the individual blocks. 
The testbenches can be found in the xschem/tb folder under the respective
block name.

## Top-Level Simulation

A complete extracted top-level simulation was carried out using a modified
PDK and [Xyce](https://github.com/Xyce/Xyce).

An example from system startup to completion of the first SAR conversion cycle
with zero differential input voltage can be seen below.

![Top-Level Simulation](docs/pictures/top_sim.png "Top-Level Simulation")

It shows the output voltage of the positive and negative DAC side.
This simulation utilizes all internal blocks, such a bandgap, ldo and oscillator
to operate the ADC.


# Measurements

**Note** the measurements are currently work in progess.

For the Full Report see: [report.pdf](measurements/report/report.pdf).


<!-- ## Main -->

<!-- ### Basis Current Source (BCS) -->

<!-- ### Bandgap Reference Voltage (BGR) -->

<!-- ![Bandgap trim](measurements/report/pic/bgr_trim.png "Trim of the BGR") -->

<!-- ### Bias Generator (BIAG) -->

<!-- ![vb voltages](measurements/report/pic/vb.png "vb voltages") -->

<!-- ### Testbuffer (TB) -->

<!-- ![Testbuffer input cycle](measurements/report/pic/tb_cycle.png "Testbuffer input cycle") -->

<!-- ![Testbuffer Rise and Fall](measurements/report/pic/tb_rise_fall.png "Testbuffer Rise and Fall") -->

<!-- ![Testbuffer noise](measurements/report/pic/tb_noise.png "Testbuffer noise") -->

<!-- ### Low Dropout Regulator (LDO) -->

<!-- ![LDO Rise and Fall](measurements/report/pic/ldo_rise_fall.png "LDO Rise and Fall") -->

<!-- ### Current Starved Oscillator (OSC) -->


## SAR


# Open Access Ressources

Very detailed and good ressource on SAR-ADC design.
[A Low Power 10-bit SAR ADC in a 45nm process - V.A. Dyachenko](https://repository.tudelft.nl/islandora/object/uuid:407e656f-30b6-4694-a7b3-19631892ceea/datastream/OBJ/download)

Various topics from bandgap reference to sampling switch circuits.
[A circuit for all Seasons - B. Razavi](https://www.seas.ucla.edu/brweb/journal.html)
